#summary Information on the data_entry_helper class.

= Introduction =

The data_entry_helper class is used for building forms on websites powered by Indicia. It provides a number of simple PHP helper methods that wrap the advanved functionality available, such as mapping, auto-complete and date picker controls.


= Functions =

== Miscellaneous ==
=== dump_errors ===
=== dump_javascript ===
=== get_auth ===
=== get_read_auth ===
=== handle_media ===
=== forward_post_to ===
=== wrap_species_checklist ===

== Session ==
=== clear_session ===
=== add_post_to_session ===
=== extract_session_array ===
=== get_from_session ===

== Data entry controls ==
=== autocomplete ===
Helper function to generate an autocomplete box from an Indicia core service query.
=== checkbox_group ===
Helper function to generate a checkbox group from a Indicia core service query.
=== date_picker ===
Helper function to insert a date picker control.
=== image_upload ===
Helper function to support image upload by inserting a file path upload control.
=== listbox ===
Helper function to generate a list box from a Indicia core service query.
=== list_in_template ===
Helper function to list the output from a request against the data services, using an HTML template for each item.
=== map ===
Generates a map control, with optional data entry fields and location finder powered by the Yahoo! geoservices API.
=== radio_group ===
Helper function to generate a radio group from a Indicia core service query.
=== species_checklist ===
Helper function to generate a species checklist from a given taxon list.

This function will generate a flexible grid control with one row for each species
in the specified list. For each row, the control will display the list preferred term
for that species, a checkbox to indicate its presence, and a series of cells for a set
of occurrence attributes passed to the control.</p>

Further, the control will incorporate the functionality to add extra terms to the
control from the parent list of the one given. This will take the form of an autocomplete
box against the parent list which will add an extra row to the control upon selection.
=== treeview ===
Helper function to generate a treeview from a given list with hierarchical relationships.