#summary How to use your own PHP, JavaScript, CSS, language strings and indicia templates with the IForm module

= Introduction =

Note that this applies to version 0.6 of Indicia and later. 

When using the data_entry_helper class directly, you can easily take control over many aspects of the system to finely control the page output. For example, it is simple to write custom validation code, add your own CSS and JavaScript files to the page, to control the output HTML by changing entries in the $indicia_templates global, or to change the language strings used by linking in your own language file. However when using the IForm module you cannot do this in the same way, but there is a mechanism for overridding all these aspects by creating files which are named according to defined patterns. 


== Adding your own CSS to an Indicia form ==

To include your own CSS files, you need to create a .css file and place it in the folder sites\all\modules\iform\client_helpers\prebuilt_forms\css. The file should be called node.nid.css where nid is the node id of the Drupal page your form is on.

In addition, developers of prebuilt forms can provide CSS that is added to the page for all instances of a particular form by creating a file called sites\all\modules\iform\client_helpers\prebuilt_forms\css\form-name.css, replacing form-name with the name of the form. For example you will find a file called verification_1.css in this location which is used for all instances of the verification_1.php form.

== Adding your own JavaScript to an Indicia form ==

To include your own JavaScript files, you need to create a .js file and place it in the folder sites\all\modules\iform\client_helpers\prebuilt_forms\js. The file should be called node.nid.js where nid is the node id of the Drupal page your form is on.

In addition, developers of prebuilt forms can provide JavaScript that is added to the page for all instances of a particular form by creating a file called sites\all\modules\iform\client_helpers\prebuilt_forms\js\form-name.js, replacing form-name with the name of the form. For example you will find a file called verification_1.js in this location which runs for all instances of the verification_1.php form.

If you need to interact with the map on your web page, there are 2 hooks you can use. The first, *mapSettingsHooks* lets you alter the settings object before it is used to setup the map. For example:
{{{
mapSettingsHooks.push(function(opts) {
  // disable zooming on scroll wheel usage
  opts.scroll_wheel_zoom = false;
}
}}}

Don't forget that there are normally other ways to provide these configurations, for example on the dynamic form you could edit the form structure and provide some property overrides after the `[map]` element. The second hook is *mapInitialisationHooks* which is called once the map is setup, letting you make any post-setup changes or attach event handlers and so forth. For example: 
{{{
mapInitialisationHooks.push(function(div) {
  div.map.events.register('zoomend', this, function (event) { 
    var currentZoom = map.getZoom(); 
    if (currentZoom > 5) { 
      alert('You are zoomed in');
    } 
  }); 
}
}}}

== Overridding the HTML templates used by the data_entry_helper class ==

The data_entry_helper declares a global array of templates called $indicia_templates. To change any of the template values for an instance of a form, you can create a folder called templates in sites\all\modules\iform\client_helpers\prebuilt_forms\. In this folder, create a file called node.nid.php where nid is the node id of the form page. The file simply changes entries in the $indicia_templates array to suit. The following example shows template changes to remove the header above uploaded images as well as add some instructions to the upload button:
{{{
<?php
global $indicia_templates;
$indicia_templates['file_box_initial_file_info'] = '<div id="{id}" class="ui-widget-content ui-corner-all photo">'.
    '<div class="progress"><div class="progress-bar" style="width: {imagewidth}px"></div><div class="progress-percent"></div></div><span class="photo-wrapper"></span></div>';
$indicia_templates['file_box'] = '<fieldset class="ui-corner-all">\n<legend>{caption}</legend>\n{uploadSelectBtn}&nbsp;'.
    '<span class="tip">You may upload up to four images of each species (max size per image of 4mb)</span>'.
    '<div class="filelist"></div>{uploadStartBtn}</fieldset>';
?>
}}}

Developers of prebuilt forms can also create a file in the templates folder called form-name.php where form-name is the name of the form without the .php extension. This provides a template override file which runs for all instances of a particular form.

== Providing your own language files ==

Language files for each prebuilt form are placed in the folder sites\all\modules\iform\client_helpers\prebuilt_forms\lang and are called form-name.lang.php where lang is the 2 character ISO language code matching the declared code in Drupal. 

In addition, a single form instance can either replace or change the language file for a form by declaring a file in the lang folder called node.nid.en.php where nid is the form page's node id. Provide a complete set of custom terms by using the global $custom_terms array:
{{{
<?php 
global $custom_terms;

$custom_terms = array(
	'Species' => 'Art',
	'Latin Name' => 'Latäineschen Numm',
	'Date' => 'Datum',
	'Spatial Ref' => 'Koordinaten'
);
?>
}}}
or override one or more terms leaving the rest intact by using the $custom_term_overrides array:
{{{
<?php
global $custom_term_overrides;
$custom_term_overrides[] = array(
  'LANG_Tab_place' => 'When and Where?',
);
?>
}}}

If you need to override language strings in a Drupal multisite setup then you can place this in the site specific version of the same folder. The site specific versions of language files take precedence over the all sites versions and the node specific versions take precedence over those defined for a prebuilt form. 

_Why don't we use Drupal i18n?_
A good question - Drupal has mechanisms for internationalisation which are mature and robust. We don't use them in Indicia though, for 2 good reasons. Firstly, Indicia is not a Drupal specific project so needs its own mechanisms for localisation. Secondly and more importantly, Drupal allows you to localise into different languages but does not provide a mechanism for overriding a string in the default language (other than hacking around with theme functions or template files etc). So, in the example above we change the English place tab title, even though the form developer had already provided a suitable string. Drupal does not do this.

== Providing custom validation code ==

When the form submission has been built, ready to send to the warehouse, it is possible to run custom PHP to validation the form POST data and return an array of errors. To do this, create a folder within your iform module `iform\client_helpers\prebuilt_forms\validation`. Inside this folder, create a file called `validate.nid.php` where the nid is replaced by your page's Drupal node ID. This file will be automatically loaded by the iform module at the appropriate point. Inside the PHP file, create a single function called iform_custom_validation which recieves a $post parameter containing form post array and returns an an associative array of control names with error messages. It can of course return an empty array if there are no problems found. Here's an example:
{{{
<?php

function iform_custom_validation($post) {
  $errors = array();
  if (substr($post['sample:entered_sref'], 0, 2)!=='SU')
    $errors['sample:entered_sref']=lang::get('This survey only accepts data in the SU grid square.');
  return $errors;
}

?>
}}}