#summary Frequently Asked Questions

= Frequently Asked Questions =

== General ==

*In one sentence, what is Indicia?*

A toolkit to help developers and website builders to quickly and easily create websites for online recording of biological records. 

*Is Indicia only suitable for public surveys?*

Indicia is targeted at building web pages which are focused on capturing wildlife records. It is obviously suitable for building simple forms to capture records from members of the public who would not want to install a desktop biological recording package. However, there are many more experienced recorders who follow strict methodologies but also do not have a need to install a fully fledged recording package and Indicia is suitable for making data entry forms for this purpose as well. 

Because Indicia gives you full control over the attributes, terminology, form layout and validation rules it is ideal for creating web forms which closely match existing paper-based record cards.

*How much does Indicia cost?*

Indicia is free and open source software and there are no costs for the software itself or any of the software it is dependent on. However, before implementing a project using Indicia please take into account the cost of web-hosting and developing your Indicia powered site, although the latter should be considerably cheaper using Indicia than if starting from scratch.

*Is Indicia ready for me to use now?*

Yes, Indicia is now being used successfully for many online recording projects both in the UK, France and in Luxembourg. 

*How do I report a bug?*

First, you need to have a Google account. Once you have that set up, go to [http://code.google.com/p/indicia/issues/list] and click the New Issue link near the top. Please take care to fill in all the details you can about how to reproduce the bug.

*What do I need to setup to use Indicia?*

There are two principal components to Indicia, the Warehouse and the website which your recording forms are presented on.  The Warehouse is the part which stores all the data and provides an interface for administering the recording surveys and the data they contain. Your website will communicate with the Warehouse behind the scenes, sending and receiving data to and from it. You need both of these components in order to use Indicia. However, the design of Indicia is such that a single Warehouse can be shared between several websites, so you may only need to host your own website and not the Warehouse. 

*What are the hosting options for the Indicia Warehouse?*

Firstly, most popular web-hosting packages support just MySQL as a database platform. Unfortunately MySQL is excellent at what it does, but is currently very limited in its capability to store and process spatial data - in particular it does not properly handle reports which request the occurrences falling inside a polygon. It also has weak support for "procedural" code embedded in the database itself. PostgreSQL on the other hand has a very rich support for spatial data and is free and Open Source, which in turn makes it well supported by other mapping tools (it's pretty easy to draw PostgreSQL data onto a Google Map or a desktop GIS for example).

So, our approach to this dilemma has been to split an Indicia based website into 2 parts as mentioed above. The "Warehouse" is where we put the PostgreSQL database. This part provides an administration website plus a set of web services providing access to the data and validation tools. The second part is the bit you get to write - a website that allows your participants to enter their observations, report and map them. It's completely up to you how you go about this, but we are providing PHP classes to make the task extremely simple, and also provide modules for the Drupal Content Management System so you can get going without writing any code. Now the good thing is that all of this will run easily on the vast majority of web-hosting packages.

So, whilst the actual online-recording websites will run pretty much anywhere, the options for running the Warehouse are as follows:
1) Host your own web server. The good news here is that all the software required on the server is free and open source (Indicia is free as in free speech _and_ free beer). Indicia's bandwidth requirements are also not likely to be very high by today's standards.
2) Use a web-hosting package. Whilst the packages that support PostgreSQL are limited, there are some, for example http://www.nethosted.co.uk/uk-web-hosting.php and http://www.devisland.net/, though I can't vouch for either of these. The former in particular does seem to have good feedback though, but devisland also seem to offer Java hosting - I'll come back to this later. For the ultimate in power and flexibility most hosts will provide a Virtual Private Server - effectively your own virtual machine which you have a lot more freedom over, though it is quite a lot more expensive.
3) Share a server with a partner organisation that is willing and capable of hosting the Warehouse on your behalf. At this time the only organisation planning to do this on behalf of other organisations is the [http://www.ceh.ac.uk/index.html Biological Records Centre], but that does not mean there won't be more.

Remember with options 1 and 2 there is an overhead of installation and administration of the Warehouse - for example you will need to setup an appropriate backup strategy and so forth.

One of the things you may want to think about when selecting a host is whether you want to expose your data as "spatial web services". The way we are doing this is to install a package called GeoServer. This runs alongside the PostgreSQL database and allows GIS and web-mapping packages to request maps and map data directly from the database using a standardised method. So, for example, it is easy to dump data onto a web-map, Google Earth or your GIS. To do this requires the ability to run Java on the server and it would be worth asking a potential web host if they can support GeoServer before going down this route (unless of course you don't need to expose the data spatially).

*Does Indicia support the NBN Record Cleaner*

Indicia supports importing rule files created for the NBN Record Cleaner which define verification rules. The rules are then automatically applied to incoming data and this information is made available for verifiers during the verification process. It all happens online and there is no need to download data into the NBN Record Cleaner tool itself. 

Indicia supports Period, Period Within Year, Identification Difficulty and Without Polygon rules. See [http://www.nbn.org.uk/Tools-Resources/Recording-Resources/NBN-Record-Cleaner/Creating-verification-rules.aspx] for more information.

== Installation Requirements ==

*What are the requirements for running an Indicia powered website?*

For the website part (i.e. not the Warehouse), the requirements are as follows:
  * PHP version 5.2 or higher
  * The cUrl PHP extension should be enabled. 
  * Any other requirements of the website (e.g. for running Drupal if using this option).

Your webserver must not be blocked from accessing the Warehouse server by a firewall to allow communications between the 2 servers.

For the Warehouse, the requirements are as follows:
 * PHP version 5.2 or higher
 * The cUrl PHP extension should be enabled. 
 * PostgreSQL 8.3 or higher is required.
 * The PostGIS extension for PostgreSQL must be installed.

In addition you might like to consider installing GeoServer alongside the Warehouse to support spatial data. This requires a Java SDK.

*The Indicia Warehouse requires PostgreSQL to run - our web hosting only offers support for MySQL, is there any way of running Indicia under MySQL?*

Firstly, if you don’t have the capability to host your own PostgreSQL capabilities and are not able to rent hosted space which does, consider whether any partner organisations such as a national record centre can provide hosting on your behalf. Or alternatively several local record centres could combine forces and share the cost of hosting a Warehouse between them. Because of the technology required, although it is possible to find a shared internet account which will allow installation, the Warehouse is more likely to be installed on a private server of some kind.

The other thing to bear in mind is that although Indicia currently runs on PostgreSQL, the technology is mostly platform independent so ought to work on MySQL as well. The only caveat to this is the use of spatial reference transformations which MySQL does not support. This means that if it needs to run on MySQL, we would need to change the code to use a different method of spatial reference transformation, plus retest it, but it would not need a rewrite.