#summary A list of sites built using Indicia

= Site Gallery =

The following is a list of some of the online recording websites that have been built using Indicia.

== [http://www.british-dragonflies.org.uk/ British Dragonfly Society] ==
The British Dragonfly Society have recently launched a new website using Indicia to replace their previous online recording facilities. Benefits over their previous system include the built in verification systems and immediate storage of all data in the Warehouse's database for reporting and further analysis.

== [http://www.bbc.co.uk/breathingplaces/ladybird-survey/ BBC Breathing Places Ladybird Survey] ==
The BBC Breathing Places ladybird survey was set up to engage both schools and members of the public in ladybird recording. There is also a survey of ladybird parasites to participate in. You can find out about some of the results on the [http://www.bbc.co.uk/blogs/natureuk/2010/09/ladybird-survey-results.shtml BBC - Nature UK Blog].

== [https://secure.fera.defra.gov.uk/nonnativespecies/index.cfm?sectionid=81 Recording Invasive Species Counts] ==
The Recording Invasive Species Counts (RISC) project is a way to find out more and to contribute to our understanding of the distribution and ecology of ten invasive non-native species.  It is co-ordinated by the NBN and BRC (part of the Centre for Ecology & Hydrology), in partnership with recording schemes for the animals and plants.  The project is funded by Defra. Indicia online recording forms are used to allow recording of 10 selected invasive species.

== [GalleryNECP North East Cetacean Project] ==
The North East Cetacean Project (NECP) is an initiative which aims to generate up-to-date information on the status of cetaceans (the collective name for dolphins and whales) off the Northumberland coastline and beyond.

== [GalleryMnhnDataLu MNHNL Data Portal]==

The MNHNL Data Portal provides a place for Luxembourgish Citizens to learn about the biodiversity projects currently running at their Natural History Museum. The site also hosts ongoing biomonitoring projects for bird, butterfly and bat recording.

== [GalleryYellowMayDun Riverfly Recording Scheme Yellow May Dun] ==

This survey captures records of the Yellow May Dun using a custom Indicia form.

== [http://www.spipoll.org/ SPIPOLL] ==

Engaging citizen scientists across France, SPIPOLL involves recording and photographing pollinators visiting flowers and includes tight integration into an existing Drupal site, advanced search gallery and a highly customised data entry system.