#summary Summary of the Easy Login Instant Indicia feature.

= Easy Login =

The Easy Login performs several tasks relating to user login, identification and profiles. This includes enabling the storage of information such as a user's geographic area and preferred species groups in the user profile and linking users into the list of user on the warehouse.

== User Profile changes ==

When Easy Login is installed, the Drupal user profile has additional fields available:

*First Name* - allows the user to enter their first name. 

*Last Name* - allows the user to enter their last name. 

*Location* - allows the user to pick from a list of locations available on the warehouse to set their grographic area.

*Species groups* - allows the user to pick one or more groups from the list available on the warehouse to indicate their recording preferences. 

In addition, if the user is promoted to the verifier role then there are the following additional fields in the profile:

*Location of expertise* - allows the administrator to pick from a list of locations available on the warehouse to set the grographic area in which verification can be performed.

*Species groups you have expertise in* - allows the administrator to pick one or more groups from the list available on the warehouse to indicate the user's expertise for verification. 

The latter 2 fields are read only for the user and editable for a site admin.

== Linking users to the warehouse ==

When a user registers on a Drupal content management system website, they are given an ID which applies to the local website only. We call this the CMS User ID. Although it is possible to store this ID against records for user identification, this approach does not lend itself well to identifying all the records from a single recorder if the records have been submitted from different client websites, as is often the case with Indicia. So, when Easy Login is enabled and a user registers, the user's email address is used to either identify an existing user on the warehouse or to create a new one. This way the user ID from the warehouse can be kept in the user's profile (in a hidden field called profile_indicia_user_id) and this can be submitted with record data to ensure the record is correctly attributed to the user. Also the user ID can be submitted with report requests in order to obtain the data filtered for the user.

== Synchronising profile attributes with the warehouse ==

The Drupal user profile might contain information about a user which you want to use in the reports generated by Indicia. However this is not easy with the profile data kept in Drupal and records in the Indicia database which are quite separate. This feature lets you synchronise profile fields into the warehouse data. For example, if you create a profile field called `profile_indicia_interests` with the caption set to Interests, plus create a custom attribute for people also called Interests which is available for people who use this website, then the information will be synchronised between the client site and the warehouse. Note that the captions must match and the Drupal profile field name _must_ start `profile_indicia_` in order for the synchronisation to happen.

Note that if you use the Easy Login module to synchronise information between the client website and the warehouse it is your responsibilty to ensure that you handle any data protection issues that this might cause.
