#summary Setup Instructions for the WWT Colour-marked Wildfowl Form.
#labels CMS-Drupal,In-Progress

=﻿ Introduction. =

This page details the configuration process for the WWT Colour-marked Wildfowl form. It assumes a level of experience in setting forms up. 

Prerequisites: install the latest code from SVN on warehouse and drupal, then upgrade the warehouse. This document is written using revision 4098. 

You will also need to have set up a website, survey and species list on the warehouse. 

== Attributes ==

The following custom attributes are used by this form. These need to be set up. The term lists currently exist but can be edited.

=== Subject Observation Attributes ===

|| *Caption* || *Type* || *System Function* || *Comments* ||
|| Attached Devices || Lookup List || Attached Device || Use the Attachment Type term list. Tick 'Allow multiple values'. ||
|| Age/plumage || Lookup List || Age/Stage Classification || Use the Stage/Age Group Status term list. ||
|| Sex || Lookup List || Sex/Gender || Use the Gender term list. ||
|| Life Status || Lookup List || Alive or Dead || Use the Life Status term list. ||

== Identifier Attributes ==

|| *Caption* || *Type* || *System Function* || *Comments* ||
|| Base Colour || Lookup List || Base/Background Colour || Use the Ring Colour term list. ||
|| Text Colour || Lookup List || Text/Code Colour || Use the Ring Colour term list. ||
|| Sequence || Text || Unique Sequence/Code || Validate as standard text ||
|| Position || Lookup List || Position on the organism || Use the Identifier Position term list. Allow multiple values. ||

= Drupal =

  # Create a new IForm Content Node. Fill in the details as follows then save it. 

  * Set menu options as required.
  * Choose a 'Title of Page'. 
  * Enter text for the 'Page introductory text'.
  * Select Form Category 'General purpose data entry forms'. 
  * Choose Form 'WWT Colour-marked Wildfowl'. 
  * Load the settings form. 

== Other Iform Parameters ==

  * View Access Control: unticked. 
  * Permission name for view access control: blank. 
  * Survey: Choose the survey created on the warehouse for this form from drop down list. 
  * Sample Method: Choose 'Field observation'. 
  * Subject Type: Choose 'Individual'.
  * Default Values: Leave as 'occurrence:record_status=C'. 
  * Redirect to page after successful data entry: blank. 
  * Display notification after save: tick. 

== Initial Map View ==

  * Set as desired or allow it to default to your general drupal settings. 

== Base Map Layers ==

  * Preset Base Layers: Tick 'Google Hybrid' only. 
  * All other fields: blank 

== Advanced Base Map Layers ==

  * All fields: blank 

== Other Map Settings ==

  * WMS layers from Geoserver: blank 
  * Controls to add to map: leave as - layerSwitcher panZoom (each value on its own line)
  * Allowed Spatial Ref Systems: OSGB,4326 (comma separated)

== Georeferencing ==

  * Leave all fields as default. 

== User Interface ==

  * Interface Style Option: select preferred style
  * Show Progress through Wizard/Tabs: Ticked if wizard chosen above
  * Show email field even if logged in: unticked 
  * Show user profile fields even if logged in: unticked 
  * Copy field values from user profile: unticked
  * Client Side Validation: Ticked. 
  * Use Accordion for Individuals: unticked.
  * Form structure: leave as default. (should be as follows)

{{{
=When and Where=
?Please tell us when you saw the colour-marked bird.?
[date]
[*]
?Please tell us where you saw the marked bird. You can do this in any of the following ways:-<ol><li>enter GPS co-ordinates or an OS grid reference directly,</li><li>enter a place name and search for it,</li><li>search for the place on the map and then click to set it.</li></ol>?
[spatial reference]
[place search]
[map]
?What name do you know this location by?
[location name]
[*]
=Colour Marks=
?Please pick the species from the following list and enter the details for the colour identifiers.?
[species identifier]
[*]
=Added Comments=
?Please add any comments for review or editing of this report.?
[show added sample comments]
[add sample comment]
[*]
=*=
}}}

  * Attribute Termlist Language Filter: unticked. 
  * Skip initial grid of Data: ticked if you wish to show a grid of exiting records to allow editing, otherwise unticked
  * Grid Report: 'reports_for_prebuilt_forms/simple_subject_observation_identifier_list_1'. 
  * Number of rows displayed in grid: 10.
  * Save button below all pages?: unticked. 

== Species ==

  * Species List: Choose the species list you have created.
  * Cache lookups: Ticked (but may need unticking after updates during development).
  * Single Species Selection Control Type: recommend 'select' for small lists, otherwise autocomplete. 
  * Include both names in species controls and added rows. Suggest unticked but chose as preferred.
  * Include taxon group name in species autocomplete and added rows: Unticked.
  * Field used to filter taxa: leave as default. 
  * Taxon filter items: leave black.. 
  * Species Names Filter: All names are available. 

== Identifiers ==

  * Neck Collar Type: Choose the identifier type which indicates a neck collar.
  * Neck collar maximum length: enter the maximum character length for a neck collar sequence e.g. 3.
  * Neck collar validation pattern: if you wish to restrict the allowed format, enter a 'regular expression' for the neck collar validation pattern. If you are not familiar with regular expressions, please seek advice.
  * Repeat the above 3 steps for the colour ring and the metal ring
  * Base Colours: Select the colours which you want to be recordable for the background of the identifiers. 
  * Text Colours: Select the colours which you want to be recordable for the text/sequence of the identifiers. 
  * Identifier Position: Select the body positions which you want to be recordable for the identifiers which have a choice of positions. Recommend 'Left leg', 'Right leg' and 'Unknown'.
  * Default Position on Leg: If for identifier position, you select  'Left leg' and 'Right leg' rather than the positions which include above/below the 'knee', you can default the leg vertical position here. Recommend “Below the 'Knee'”.
  * Use Colour Picker: Ticked.

== Subject observation ==

  * Other Devices: Choose the attachment device types you wish to record. Leave all unticked to hide this feature
  * Allow Comment For Colour-marked Individual: recommend ticked
  * Request Gender Values: Choose the gender values you wish to record. Leave all unticked to hide this feature. Suggest ticking Male, Female, Unknown.
  * Request Age Values: Choose the gender values you wish to record. Leave all unticked to hide this feature. Suggest ticking 1st winter, 1st summer, 2nd winter, Adult, Unknown but choose as appropriate.
  * Request Life Status Values: Choose the 'life status' values you wish to record. Leave all unticked to hide this feature.

== Debug ==

  * Provide debug information: Ticked. This section will be removed for production.