#summary How to get your data entry controls to keep their values when reloading the form

= Remembering field values =

A common requirement is to remember certain field values between data entry sessions or simply after entering a single record. Examples include controls for personal details which are unlikely to change, as well as data entry done in a fashion where certain fields are unlikely to change between records, so using the previous value as a default makes sense.

To do this, you need to write a method called indicia_define_remembered_fields, which itself calls the data_entry_helper::set_remembered_fields method, passing an array of the fieldnames of each field to remember. This method should then be included on your PHP page for the form. Here's an example:

{{{
  function indicia_define_remembered_fields() {
    data_entry_helper::set_remembered_fields(array(
      'smpAttr:4',
      'smpAttr:5',
      'smpAttr:6',
      'smpAttr:7'
    ));
  }
}}}

If you are writing a form in the prebuilt form library, there is a slight difference in that the method should be a public static member of your form class, and takes the form's settings as an $args array. This allows you to get hold of attribute IDs, as an example.

{{{
class iform_myform {

  ...

  public static function indicia_define_remembered_fields($args) {
    data_entry_helper::set_remembered_fields(array(
      'smpAttr:'.$args['first_name_attr_id'],
      'smpAttr:'.$args['surname_attr_id'],
      'smpAttr:'.$args['email_attr_id'],
      'smpAttr:'.$args['phone_attr_id'],
    ));
  }
}
}}}

==Privacy==
Remember that, while it can be helpful, users may not wish their personal information to be stored in a cookie, especially if they are working on a shared computer. For this reason, the use of a cookie should be enabled by an optin checkbox. A standard control has been added in to the client helpers in version 0.7.0 for this purpose. You can include it in your form as shown in the example below.

{{{
<?php
  echo data_entry_helper::remembered_fields_optin(array(
    'label' => 'Remember me',
    'helpText' => 'Tick this box to store your details for next time.',
  ));
?>
}}}