#summary Setup Instructions for the MNHNL Butterflies 2 Form.

= Introduction =
This page details the configuration process for the MNHNL Butterflies 2 form (Papillon de Jours). It assumes a level of experience in setting forms up.

Prerequisites: the Attributes and Species for the MNHNL Butterflies and MNHNL Bats forms should have been loaded in.

==Attributes==
The following custom attributes are used by this form.
===Occurrence Attributes===
<table border="1">
<tr><th>Caption</th><th>Type</th><th>Comments</th></tr>
<tr><td>Count</td><td>Integer</td><td>May already be defined if COBIMO form has been deployed, as it is used in the COBIMO form.</td></tr>
</table>
===Location Attributes===
None
===Sample Attributes===
<table border="1">
<tr><th>Caption</th><th>Type</th><th>Comments</th></tr>
<tr><td>Temperature (Celsius)</td><td>Float</td><td>Standard Attribute provided by default Indicia installation.</td></tr>
<tr><td>CMS User ID</td><td>Integer</td><td>Standard Attribute provided by default Indicia installation.</td></tr>
<tr><td>CMS Username</td><td>Text</td><td>Standard Attribute provided by default Indicia installation.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Reliability</td><td>Lookup List</td><td>May already be defined if Bats Winter Monitoring form has been deployed, as it is used in the Bats Winter Monitoring form. Defined in support file bat_attributes_winter.sql</td></tr>
<tr><td>Duration</td><td>Integer</td><td>Defined in support file butterfly_de_jour_attributes.sql deployed as part of this form's deployment.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Rain Checkbox</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Defined in support file butterfly_de_jour_attributes.sql deployed as part of this form's deployment.</td></tr>
<tr><td>No observation</td><td>Boolean</td><td>May already be defined if Butterfly Monitoring form has been deployed, as it is used in the Butterfly Monitoring form. Defined in support file butterfly_attributes.sql</td></tr>
<tr><td>Cloud Cover</td><td>Lookup List</td><td>May already be defined if Butterfly Monitoring form has been deployed, as it is used in the Butterfly Monitoring form. Defined in support file butterfly_attributes.sql </td></tr>
<tr><td>MNHNL Butterfly de Jour Passage</td><td>Lookup List</td><td>Defined in support file butterfly_de_jour_attributes.sql deployed as part of this form's deployment.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Start Time</td><td>Text</td><td>May already be defined if COBIMO form has been deployed, as it is used in the COBIMO form.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Numeric Windspeed</td><td>Integer</td><td>Defined in file butterfly_de_jour_attributes.sql deployed as part of this form's deployment.</td></tr>
</table>

= Warehouse =
  # Open up a browser window to the warehouse.
  # Make note of Website ID and password to be used - create a new one if needed.

= Database =
  # Open up pgAdmin on the server.
  # Run support file butterfly_de_jour_attributes.sql. This will load in the required termlists and custom attributes.
  # If you do not have access to this file, create the following Term Lists
|| Term List ||


If the 5x5km Grid locations have not already been loaded in, do the following steps:
  # _Make a note of the ids for the *Lux5KSquare* term and the *LizardLocation* term in the *ReptileLocation* termlist. If the locations are to be separated between the surveys, separate term IDs must be used for the different surveys._
  # Take a copy of the support file 5kgrid_locations.sql.
  # Edit this copy and replace all occurrences of *`<locType>`* with the *Lux5KSquare* term id noted above, and replace all occurrences of *`<website_id>`* with the website ID noted above.
  # Run this modified file against the database.

= Warehouse =
  # Make a note of the list ID for the butterfly species list used for the first MNHNL Butterflies form.
  # Create a survey, and attach it to the Website above. Make a note of its name and ID.
  # Bring up the surveys, and choose the '*setup attributes*' link for the survey created above.
  # Within samples attribute set, create the following blocks: '*General*', '*Passage*', '*Conditions*', and '*Species*'.
  # Put the '*Passage*' block into the '*General*' block.
  # Add the following existing attributes, and place them into the '*Passage*' block: '*MNHNL Butterfly de Jour Passage*'.
  # Add the following existing attributes, and place them into the '*Conditions*' block: '*Start Time*', '*Duration*', '*Temperature (Celcius)*', '*Numeric Windspeed*', '*Rain Checkbox*', '*Cloud Cover Edit Delete*', '*Reliability*'.
  # Add the following existing attribute, and place it into the '*Species*' block: '*No observation*'.
  # Add the following existing attributes, but leave them outside the blocks: '*CMS User ID*', '*CMS Username*', '*Email*'.
  # Save the layout.
  # Within the occurrences attribute set, add the following existing attributes, but leave them outside any blocks: '*Count*'.
  # Save the layout.

= Drupal =
  # Create a new IForm Content Node. Fill in the details as follows then save it.
  * Choose a 'Title of Page'.
  * Enter Website ID and its password, noted at start.
  * Select Form Category 'MNHNL forms'.
  * Choose Form 'MNHNL Butterflies de Jours'.
  * Load the settings form.
===Other Iform Parameters===
  * View Access Control: unchecked.
  * Permission name for view access control: blank.
  * Survey: Choose the survey created in step 3 from drop down list.
  * Sample Method: Leave as '<please select>'.
  * Default Values: Leave as 'occurrence:record_status=C'.
  * Max number of species to be returned by search: leave as 25.
  * Redirect to page after successful data entry: blank.
  * Display notification after save: unchecked.
===Initial Map View===
  * Centre of Map Latitude: 49.75
  * Centre of Map Longitude: 6.16
  * Map Zoom Level: 9
  * Map Width: 100%
  * Map Height: 600
  * Remember position: unchecked.
===Base Map Layers===
  * Preset Base Layers: Check 'Google Hybrid' only.
  * All other fields: blank
===Advanced Base Map Layers===
  * All fields: blank
===Other Map Settings===
  * WMS layers from Geoserver: blank
  * Controls to add to map: leave as - layerSwitcher panZoom
  * Allowed Spatial Ref Systems: 2169
===Georeferencing===
  * Leave all fields as default.
===User Interface===
  * Interface Style Option: Wizard
  * Show Progress through Wizard/Tabs: Checked
  * Show email field even if logged in: unchecked
  * Show user profile fields even if logged in: unchecked
  * Client Side Validation: Checked.
  * Form structure: leave as default.
  * Attribute Termlist Language Filter: checked.
  * Skip initial grid of Data: unchecked.
  * Grid Report: leave as 'reports_for_prebuilt_forms/MNHNL/mnhnl_butterflies2'.
  * Save button below all pages?: unchecked.
  * Include Location Tools: checked.
  * Location Tools Location Type ID Filter: set to term id for 'Lux5KSquare' noted above.
  * Attribute Validation Rules: set to *`smpAttr:<X>,required`*, where *`<X>`* is the sample attribute id for '*Passage*' noted above.
  * Site Location Type ID Filter: set to term id for LizardLocation noted above.
===Species===
  * Single or Multiple occurrences per sample: leave as default.
  * Single Species Selection Control Type: Autocomplete.
  * Occurrence Comment: Unchecked.
  * Occurrence Confidential: Unchecked.
  * Occurrence Images: Unchecked.
  * Grid Column Widths: blank.
  * Initial Species List: leave as default.
  * Extra Species List: set to the _main_ Butterfly taxon list ID above..
  * Species Names Filter: All names are available.
=NOTES=
After the node has been created, users must be given permissions to do access the node.
The bare minimum user must be given a role which has the following Drupal permissions (where *`<node>`* is the node number for this form):
  * IForm n*`<node>`* user
  * access iform
  * IForm loctools node *`<node>`* user

A manager should be given a role which has the following Drupal permissions (again where *`<node>`* is the node number for this form):
  * IForm n*`<node>`* admin
  * IForm n*`<node>`* user
  * IForm loctools node *`<node>`* admin
  * IForm loctools node *`<node>`* superuser
  * IForm loctools node *`<node>`* user
  * access iform

The manager will need to assign the locations to the users in order for the user to be able to access them.