#summary Tutorial that demonstrates adding support for the Google Maps base layers to the basic data entry page.
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

This tutorial demonstrates adding support for the Google Maps base layers to the basic data entry page. Before starting the tutorial, you should have completed the [TutorialBuildingBasicPage Building a Basic Data Entry Page] tutorial.

= Steps =

  # First, you need a Google Maps API Key. To obtain one, visit the [http://code.google.com/intl/fr-LU/apis/maps/signup.html Google Maps API Signup site]. You need to enter the URL of the server you are developing your website on in the *My web site URL* box on this page, accept the conditions, then click *Generate API Key*.
  # This will take you to a page which displays your API key. Copy this somewhere safe. Also, take a look at the code given on this page for your example web page. A few lines down, you will see a line that starts `script src=..`. Copy this line of code to the clipboard, all the way up to and including the `</script>` on the next line.
  # Paste this line of code into the HTML template for your web page. Insert it beneath the other `<script>` elements in your HTML `<head>` section then save the template.
  # Now, in the code you have already built for your data entry page, find the line of code that calls the `data_entry_helper::map_picker` method. Change this that the last parameter, which currently reads `array()`, now reads `array('inc_google'=>'true','init_layer'=>'Google Physical')`. Save your page and have a look at it in the browser. Click on the + button on the right of the map to see the different base layers you are able to load by default, and change the `init_layer` parameter to the name of the layer you want to be the default.
  # You can remove the support for the Virtual Earth layer by specifying an option `'inc_virtual_earth'=>'false'` if desired.
  # Here's a complete list of options you can include in the array parameter in calls to the map_picker method:
|| *Option* || *Description* ||
|| init_value || Initial value to place in the spatial reference control ||
|| width || Width of the map control in pixels ||
|| height || Height of the map control in pixels ||
|| instruct || Override the default instruction text ||
|| inc_virtual_earth || Include the Microsoft Virtual Earth base layer - specify 'true' or 'false'. Defaults to 'true'. ||
|| inc_google || Include the Google base layers - specify 'true' or 'false'. Defaults to 'false'. Requires a valid link to the Google Maps API with an API key to be present in the page. ||
|| init_lat || Initial latitude for the centre of the map. Note this currently uses the Spherical Mercator projection. ||
|| init_long || Initial longitude for the centre of the map. Note this currently uses the Spherical Mercator projection. ||
|| init_zoom || Initial zoom level for the map. Specify a value from 1 to 18. ||