#summary Setup Instructions for the MNHNL Reptiles Form.

= Introduction =
This page details the configuration process for the MNHNL Reptiles form. It assumes a level of experience in setting forms up.

Prerequisites: the Attributes for the MNHNL butterflies and MNHNL bats forms should have been loaded in.

= Warehouse =
  # Open up a browser window to the warehouse.
  # Make note of Website ID and password to be used - create a new one if needed.
  # Create a survey, and attach it to the Website above. Make a note of its name and ID.

= Database =
  # Open up pgAdmin on the server.
  # Run support file reptiles.sql. This will load in the required termlists and custom attributes.
  # Make a note of the ids for the *Lux5KSquare* term and the *LizardLocation* term in the *ReptileLocation* termlist.
  # Take a copy of the support file reptile_locations.sql.
  # Edit this copy and replace all occurrences of *`<locType>`* with the *Lux5KSquare* term id noted above, and replace all occurrences of *`<website_id>`* with the website ID noted above.
  # Run this modified file against the database.
  # Make a note the the sample attribute id for '*No Observation*'.
  # Make a note of the occurrence attribute ids for 'Reptile Occurrence Type' (later referred to as *`<typeID>`*), 'Reptile Occurrence Stage' (later referred to as *`<stageID>`*), 'Reptile Occurrence Sex' (later referred to as *`<sexID>`*), 'Reptile Occurrence Behaviour' (later referred to as *`<behaviourID>`*).
  # Make a note of the meaning ids of the following terms (it is easiest to look directly at the '*detail_termlists_terms*' view in pgAdmin).
||Term||Termlist||later referred to as||Meaning ID||
||Dead specimen||Reptile Type||*`<typeDead>`*||||
||Slough||Reptile Type||*`<typeSlough>`*||||
||Specimen||Reptile Type||*`<typeSpec>`*||||
||Undetermined||Reptile Type||*`<typeUndet>`*||||
||Egg||Reptile Stage||*`<stageEgg>`*||||
||Juvenile||Reptile Stage||*`<stageJuv>`*||||
||Adult||Reptile Stage||*`<stageAdult>`*||||
||Undetermined||Reptile Stage||*`<stageUndet>`*||||
||Female||Reptile Sex||*`<sexFem>`*||||
||Male||Reptile Sex||*`<sexMale>`*||||
||Undetermined||Reptile Sex||*`<sexUndet>`*||||
||Basking||Reptile Behaviour||*`<behavBask>`*||||
||Feeding||Reptile Behaviour||*`<behavFeed>`*||||
||Fighting||Reptile Behaviour||*`<behavFight>`*||||
||Hunting||Reptile Behaviour||*`<behavHunt>`*||||
||Inactivity||Reptile Behaviour||*`<behavInact>`*||||
||Lethargy||Reptile Behaviour||*`<behavLeth>`*||||
||Resting||Reptile Behaviour||*`<behavRest>`*||||
||Swimming||Reptile Behaviour||*`<behavSwim>`*||||
||Undetermined||Reptile Behaviour||*`<behavUndet>`*||||


= Warehouse =
  # Bring up the surveys, and choose the '*setup attributes*' link for the survey created above.
  # Within samples attribute set, create the following blocks: '*Conditions*', '*General*', '*Weather*', '*Species*', '*No Observation*'.
  # Put the '*General*' and '*Weather*' blocks into the '*Conditions*' block.
  # Put the '*No Observation*' block into the '*Species*' block.
  # Add the following existing attributes, and place them into the '*General*' block: '*Reptile Survey 1*', '*Duration*', '*Suitability Checkbox*', '*Picture Provided*'.
  # Add the following existing attributes, and place them into the '*Weather*' block: '*Temperature (Celcius)*', '*Cloud Cover*', '*Rain Checkbox*'.
  # Add the following existing attribute, and place it into the '*No Observation*' block: '*No observation*'.
  # Add the following existing attributes, but leave them outside the blocks: '*CMS User ID*', '*CMS Username*', '*Email*'.
  # Save the layout.
  # Within the occurrences attribute set, add the following existing attributes, but leave them outside the blocks: '*Count*', '*Occurrence Reliability*', '*Counting*', '*Reptile Occurrence Type*', '*Reptile Occurrence Stage*', '*Reptile Occurrence Sex*', '*Reptile Occurrence Behaviour*'.
  # Save the layout.
  # Prepare and upload species list
  # Create a sub list for this, and copy down the taxon for "Podarcis muralis".
  # Make a note of the list IDs for both the main list and the sublist.

= Drupal =
  # Create a new IForm Content Node. Fill in the details as follows then save it.
  * Choose a 'Title of Page'.
  * Enter Website ID and its password, noted at start.
  * Select Form Category 'MNHNL forms'.
  * Choose Form 'MNHNL Reptiles'.
  * Load the settings form.
===Other Iform Parameters===
  * View Access Control: unchecked.
  * Permission name for view access control: blank.
  * Survey: Choose the survey created in step 3 from drop down list.
  * Sample Method: Leave as '<please select>'.
  * Default Values: Leave as 'occurrence:record_status=C'.
  * Redirect to page aftere successful data entry: blank.
  * Display notification after save: unchecked.
===Initial Map View===
  * Centre of Map Latitude: 49.75
  * Centre of Map Longitude: 6.16
  * Map Zoom Level: 9
  * Map Width: 100%
  * Map Height: 600
  * Remember position: unchecked.
===Base Map Layers===
  * Preset Base Layers: Check 'Google Hybrid' only.
  * All other fields: blank
===Advanced Base Map Layers===
  * All fields: blank
===Other Map Settings===
  * WMS layers from Geoserver: blank
  * Controls to add to map: (each on separate line in textarea) layerSwitcher panZoom SiteSelector
  * Allowed Spatial Ref Systems: 2169
===Georeferencing===
  * Leave all fields as default.
===User Interface===
  * Interface Style Option: Wizard
  * Show Progress through Wizard/Tabs: Checked
  * Show email field even if logged in: unchecked
  * Show user profile fields even if logged in: unchecked
  * Client Side Validation: Checked.
  * Form structure: Change the assigned values for the following 3 lines to
`@`attrRestrictions=*`<typeID>`*:*`<stageID>`*:*`<typeDead>`*,`*`:*`<typeSlough>`*,*`<stageUndet>`*:*`<typeSpec>`*,`*`:*`<typeUndet>`*,*`<stageUndet>`*;*`<stageID>`*:*`<sexID>`*:*`<stageAdult>`*,`*`:*`<stageEgg>`*,*`<sexUndet>`*:*`<stageJuv>`*,*`<sexFem>`*,*`<sexMale>`*,*`<sexUndet>`*:*`<stageUndet>`*,*`<sexUndet>`*;*`<stageID>`*:*`<behaviourID>`*:*`<stageAdult>`*,`*`:*`<stageEgg>`*,*`<behavUndet>`*:*`<stageJuv>`*,*`<behavBask>`*,*`<behavFeed>`*,*`<behavFight>`*,*`<behavHunt>`*,*`<behavInact>`*,*`<behavLeth>`*,*`<behavRest>`*,*`<behavSwim>`*,*`<behavUndet>`*:*`<stageUndet>`*,`*`<br />
`@`ParentLocationTypeID=*`<X>`*<br />
`@`LocationTypeID=*`<Y>`*<br />
Where *`<X>`* is the term id for '*Lux5KSquare*' noted above, *`<Y>`* is the term id for '*LizardLocation*' noted above,
and the entries in the *`@`attrRestrictions* line are as found above. Note that the exact puctuation is very important, as are the different terms for 'Undetermined'.<br />
  * Attribute Termlist Language Filter: checked.
  * Skip initial grid of Data: unchecked.
  * Grid Report: leave as 'reports_for_prebuilt_forms/MNHNL/mnhnl_reptiles'.
  * Save button below all pages?: unchecked.
  * Include Location Tools: checked.
  * Location Tools Location Type ID Filter: set to term id for 'Lux5KSquare' noted above.
  * Attribute Validation Rules: set to *`smpAttr:<X>,no_observation`*, where *`<X>`* is the sample attribute id for '*No Observation*' noted above.
===Species===
  * Single or Multiple occurrences per sample: Only allow entry of multiple occurrences using a grid.
  * Single Species Selection Control Type: Autocomplete.
  * Occurrence Comment: Checked.
  * Occurrence Confidential: Unchecked.
  * Occurrence Images: Unchecked.
  * Grid Column Widths: blank.
  * Initial Species List: set to the _sub_ taxon list ID above.
  * Extra Species List: set to the _main_ taxon list ID above..
  * Species Names Filter: All names are available.
=NOTES=
After the node has been created, users must be given permissions to do access the node.
The bare minimum user must be given a role which has the following Drupal permissions (where *`<node>`* is the node number for this form):
  * IForm n*`<node>`* user
  * access iform
  * IForm loctools node *`<node>`* user

A manager should be given a role which has the following Drupal permissions (again where *`<node>`* is the node number for this form):
  * IForm n*`<node>`* admin
  * IForm n*`<node>`* user
  * IForm loctools node *`<node>`* admin
  * IForm loctools node *`<node>`* superuser
  * IForm loctools node *`<node>`* user
  * access iform

The manager will need to assign the locations to the users in order for the user to be able to access them.