#summary A list of recipes for developing Indicia data entry pages.
#labels Featured

= Webpage Developer Recipes =

* [TutorialThemingAndTemplating Theming and Templating]

How to change the theme and HTML templates used by data entry controls.

* [TutorialDataEntryWizard Converting a data entry page to a wizard]

How to convert an existing data entry page into a wizard style interface.

* [TutorialTabs Converting a data entry page to a tabbed interface]

How to convert an existing data entry page into a tabbed style interface.

* [TutorialUsingGeoServer]

An introduction to using GeoServer with Indicia.

* [MapPanelOptions Map Panel Options]

Options available when adding a data_entry_helper::map_panel.

* [TutorialModularMapping Mapping functionality using the modular mapping controls]

An introduction to putting together mapping controls for data entry and distribution maps.

* [TutorialImprovingPageLoadPerformance Improving the loading performance for data entry pages]

Performance considerations for loading your data entry pages.

* [TutorialDiagnosingProblems Diagnosing problems] 

Some techniques to help you diagnose problems with your data entry pages.

* [TutorialDisplayingLoadingSplash Displaying Loading message]

Displaying a loading message 'splash' whilst your data entry form loads.

* [TutorialEnablingClientSideValidation Enabling client side validation]

How to use validation in the web-browser to validate your forms without posting back to the server.

* [TutorialConfiguringValidationMessageDisplay Configuring the display of validation messages]

How to control the way that Indicia displays validation messages for your controls.